---
title: StormBit Staff Meeting Agenda
subtitle: 2nd of August 2014
date: 2014-08-02 20:00
layout: page
author: antoligy
permalink: 20140802.html
---

### Foreward: ###

It has been a while since our last formal staff meeting, and so with the recent events it seems pertinent that we hold one.  Today's agenda has been compiled from various suggestions, concerns and issues that have come out from talks - both private and public - with staff members and users alike, and while I've taken the liberty of cherry-picking and prioritising them myself for the sake of fluidity and actually being able to talk about these items, it's important that we take each seriously.


#### Hierarchial changes: ####

- Many of our ranks are defunct, and due to our minimal privilege separation I think we should sack off the useless ranks by merging the Network Officer and Network Technician roles into the Network Operator rank. 
- Similarly should we merge "Server Owners" and active "Network Technicians" into a new "Server Administrator" role, to remove the ambiguity as servers are not (yet?) administered on a global basis.
- In theory the ranks should now be less ambiguous, and so there is little reason for us not to rename "Senior Network Administrators" to just "Network Administrators".
- Just in case those sweeping changes weren't enough, one of the ideas we ran into on Bit'sJoint IRC which we've toyed with in the past, is the introduction of a Help-Op rank, enabling users to join in with staff discussions without carrying the responsibilities and privileges of being a full member of network staff.


#### User rank changes: ####

- Benbop.  On the cards for at least a year, though blocked by his popularity, Benbop has been looking to step down as a member of the network staff, but to continue supporting the network.  If we are to offer up a Help-Op rank, I believe that we have our first candidate.
- Rikai. Rikai has had his problems in the past, of which at least a few were my own issues with him and his activities, but in recent months - if not even the past year - he has taken charge and pushed forward the network to the greatest extent of his ability, even recently re-opening StormCom and acting as a liaison with the staff of Bit'sJoint IRC.  It is the opinion of many that he should take over Reimu's role as the third highest seat of power.
- Lucy.  Similarly to Rikai, although since the very beginning, Lucy has been one of the most active network operators and has already assumed command of the network in each of my hiatuses.  As well as writing content for the site, and handling the few localised conflicts which have arisen in network channels, she has also held at least one staff meeting, leading to the popular suggestion she officially takes up the reigns as my second in command.  
- Lymia. Within the hierarchy (at the time of writing) Lymia currently holds the second greatest seat of power, a role which she at a time once fulfilled in its entirety, but that her recent inactivity has forced others to do.  I won't lie, people aren't happy with her general indifference to the network, but she has also offered to provide further servers should we need them, and is very capable of offering vast technical know-how to the network as a whole.
- Telume.  As you are aware, recently we had been in talks with the staff of the Bit'sJoint IRC network regarding a partnership and potential merger, and while the talks have since been parked (My personal viewpoint is that we were going far, far too fast) it is appropriate for us to appoint Telume to our network with a dual-purpose role, in which he acts not only as a permanent representative of BJI, but also to enrich the team with his experience as obviously things are _run_ a little differently there.


#### Network Improvements:  ####

- Another idea we've toyed with in the past is the introduction of a network bot.  Such a bot would likely need to be coded from scratch, but this is no object as we've already got a few frameworks to build around, it's just a matter of actually doing it.  The actual implementation can be discussed at a later stage, but first we should decide upon exactly what kind of functionality it is we're looking at.
  - One feature several operators have already requested is better notification of HostServ requests, so that we don't wind up with users waiting up to a week for their requests to be handled.  A bot would be able to solve this by forwarding these requests to an IRC channel, or even to operators via some kind of Push service (We favour PushBullet; others are fine too).
  - Statistics logging.  Something else we've looked at to do is to collate some kind of audit-able statistics of the network, to help us with decisions and maybe for our users to measure their proverbial e-peens with.
  - Voting bot.  Purely for staff meetings, though users may find use in this too, the ability to hold votes with a bot - Maybe anonymously, or in public, depending on the feature set.
  - These are just my own personal suggestions, and ideally we need to hear many more.
- One of the pieces of InspIRCd technology we rely upon is the ability to forward server notices to our log channels.
  - Is #staff.flood sufficient?
  - Is #staff.debug sufficient?
  - Shall we start forwarding certain snomasks to the channel?  DJ_Arghlex has made the suggestion that for things such as flooding, it might be prudent to direct that directly to #staff.
- For the sake of consistency and professionalism, should/can we start enforcing that servers name themselves based on a .stormbit.net subdomain?  I believe ReimuHakurei and clarjon1 are already open to the idea.
- Can we "encourage" that NSFW channels add a tag/warning to their title?  An example of an a case where this would be nice would be #harem, which links to a picture including an exposed behind, without any such warning.  To anybody coming in from the outside, looking at our channel listing, this is off-putting.
- Feedback on the Trello workflow.  Is it working, and how may we improve upon it?


#### Website(s): ####

- "Crisis"!  Our long-standing PageRank rivalry with StormBit Oy, some Finish company, has led them to hiring an agency which has boosted their SEO to the point where they've finally started beating us in search results.  To combat this we should increase the priority of us putting content on the website.
  - One category of content of which we are in dire need, is tutorials.
    - Already we are looking at writing tutorials for the standard set of IRC clients, but our preference should be for the Textual and HexChat IRC clients as they recognise StormBit as a network and offer it in their default server lists.
    - Services.  Rikai has already begun work on this, but one of the weaknesses we have against networks with Anope - still the 'industry standard' for whatever reason - is that it is difficult for users to jump from a network with Anope, or different/no services, to ours with Atheme - at least at first.  To ease the transition we should be writing a fully featured user guide for Atheme 7.1.
    - Other ideas for content include:
      - Informational pages.
      - Guides on running channels. (See Lucy).
      - Anything else you feel might prove even remotely pertinent.
  - Blogs.
    - DJ_Arghlex has suggested that we may offer per-staff blogs, which is doable.
    - We need to start posting semi-regular news, though this has been the case since before we were beaten on Google.
- Another means by which we can improve our PageRank is by dramatically increasing the number of other webpages on the internet linking to us.  Clarjon1's site currently outnumbers the links to StormBit, and he does this by including a global link in his sidebar - It would be appreciated if other users could make efforts to do the same.  Feel free to approach me on the subject.
- Do we continue on using nuck's code, or do we let akiaki and catgirl refactor everything using the Bootstrap CSS framework with which more than just nuck can understand.
- We have forums in the form of a Discourse installation.
  - Do we need them?
  - Shall we start using them to track and discuss the actions of users and similar?  This has always been the plan, but people's opinions may have changed since the original decision was made.
  - Is Discourse the 'right choice'?  Similar to above, is Discourse still what we think we need?
- Our social media presence, i.e. Twitter and Google Plus, is proving more important than before and we must ensure that at least G+ is being updated.


#### Linking: ####

- Should we open up the network to links from elsewhere?  Right now we have a strong preference for existing members of staff, but if trustworthy people come along what should our stance be, and should we be offering linking documentation?
- JordanJ2 of Bit'sJoint IRC has offered to provide a server for us, hosted in OVH's Canada datacenter.  My own experience with this particular DC is that it is _far_ better than their French locations, and offers great stability and connectivity, to mainland US and Europe alike.  Shall we accept his link request, and if so, shall we move the current 'server' for irc.xfcab.com there?
- Is it worth us offering to run servers for other networks?


----


There are further points that have been raised which that I feel should be discussed in separate, smaller meetings as they don't pertain to IRC, but rather to a few of StormBit's other offerings.  However they are still included in this document for the sake of continuity:

#### StormBNC: ####

- Shall we enforce some sort of rule by which users must connect to the channel at least once every <X> days in order to continue using their service?
- Similarly should we be enforcing an activity timeout as other providers do, by which if without notice a user doesn't connect to their BNC for say, a month, we close that connection?


#### StormBitGames: ####

- I have made the suggestion to Argh that the individual offerings might choose names not directly related to StormBit.  What are other's thoughts on this?
- How should we be promoting SBG?


#### Our role-play offerings: ####

- An interesting one, we currently offer RPGServ which enables channels to be listed as offering RP with basic metadata such as "setting", "storyline", "ruleset", "rating", and separately GameServ offers several style of the dice used in RPGs.  We, however, have not even begin to advertise this functionality and so consequently nobody uses it.  Shall we?
- If we are doing the above, in order to incentivise the use of our network over others like, say, LunarNet, should we look to extend this functionality to include the ability to include basic character sheets and similar?